**Radar Island** (1952) * * 1/2

A scientist, a soldier, a plucky girl reporter and their pet monkey infiltrate
the island lair of Doctor Nicholas to steal the secret of his radar powered
robots. Gavin Greesh's over-the-top performance as the literally
mustache-twirling mad doctor is the highlight of this otherwise by-the-numbers
adventure film.

**The Mechanical Marvel** (1959) * * * *

Alan Adaire and Farrah Wells dance, sing, and smile in this delightful musical
about a quack traveling professor at the turn of the century and his "100%
mechanical, fully programmable, (slightly inflammible) singsong machine" that is
really a disgraced opera singer in disguise. Classic songs including "Find
my Way" and "Grandpa's Watching", big dance production numbers, beautiful sets
and costumes all in glorious technicolor make this movie an under appreciated jem.

**Mission to Jupiter** (1961) * * 1/2 

An international group of astronauts sent to investigate a mysterious signal
from Jupiter discover a city full of robots. Beautiful settings and haunting
matte paintings make this movie interesting moment to moment, but bad dubbing
and carelessly cut in scenes with American actors mean the movie doesn't really
make much sense as a whole. Viewers with a serious interest will seek out
**Miko≈Çaj w Kosmosie**, the Polish film that was the source of the best parts of
this one, and watch that instead.

**The Castle of Tomorrow** (1971) * * * 1/2

British produced, science-fiction themed horror anthology. Individual stories
framed by a team of investigators touring a mad scientist's fortress. The
stories themselves are a bit uneven but the segment about the computer that
falls in love is a high point. Features a brief but effective (and apparently
sober) late-career performance from Gavin Greesh as the simultaniously
Falstaffian and sinister master of the titular castle.

**Mighty Team in the Arctic** (1978) * * 1/2

Animation. Mighty Team and their giant robot Mighty Soldier J must prevent
aliens from stealing Earth's ice from the arctic. Surprise, they defeat the
aliens by forming Mighty Soldier J and fighting the alien robot monsters,
although they spend a lot of time talking about it before they do it. The people
who like this sort of thing will probably like this thing, too. Goofiest moment
when Jack and Lance Mighty infiltrate the alien dungeons and release Santa
Claus, who had been kidnapped when the aliens landed at the North Pole.

**Indra's Web** (1979) * * * 1/2

Psychedelic thriller. A man begins to suspect that he is a robot, programmed to
play out a particular scenario again and again, each time in slightly different
circumstances. Not quite smart enough to achieve its ambitions, but if you can
look past the pretention there are plenty of interesting visual effects and
an exciting climactic chase sequence that make this movie worth a look.

**The Silver Sleigh** (1983) * * 1/2

When an unscrupulous businessman convinces Santa to replace his elves with
automation, it's up to an enterprising elf inventor and his home-made toy robot
to set things right. Fairly standard children's fare, with a few charming moments
between Willy the elf and Hobart, his hapless robot creation.

**Odin the Conqueror** (1984) * 1/2

A bearded, aging barbarian fights bandits, vampires, a mostly-off-screen dragon,
and (inexplicably) a horde of space robots to save a kingdom from a hazily
defined doom in this z-movie snoozer. In many cases the main character is
portrayed on-screen by obvious stand-ins failing to hide behind a series of
absurd wigs and beards. An extra 1/2 star for the (non-sequitur) robot fight at
the end, which seems to be borrowed from a better, more carefully made film.

**The Herobotix Holiday Special** (1985) * *

Animated for television. The Herobotix team of crime-fighting robots take a
break from fighting their arch-enemies the Creepadroids to learn various holiday
lessons from their human friends. The Creepadroids apparently didn't get the
memo, and their attempts to interfere introduce convenient cliffhangers at every
30 minute mark in this movie that is clearly an after-school cartoon miniseries
cut together into a feature. The only surprises in this otherwise by-the-numbers
toy advertisement disguised as a movie are during a 30-minute segment where
Herobotix lieutenant Turbotron and Creepadroid antagonist Drillkill are forced
to cooperate to find their way through an enormous subterranian maze.

**Superior** (1992) * * *

A hunky android escapes his evil creators and is pursued by a less attractive
but much more evil counterpart. Rough around the edges, but capable martial arts
fight choreography and a high suspense a third act game of cat and mouse in an
is makes this a solid b-movie.

**E-lated** (1998) * * *

A teenage nerd helps his crush pretend to be a musical computer program to win
an Internet record contract. Charming performances from Oscar Mathdaniel and
Geena DeColdest and an upbeat Europop soundtrack don't quite save this update of
**The Mechanical Marvel**, which never quite manages to make sense. Christmas
alternative hit "Electric Santa" didn't manage to knock the Spice Girls out of
number one that year, either.

**Beneath** (1999) * *

Marines and scientists sent to infiltrate an underground complex are replaced
one by one with robot duplicates. A rogue computer takes the place of the
shapeshifting alien in this cheap and lazy straight-to-video knock-off of John
Carpenter's **The Thing**, all the way down to the budget Wilford Brimley
look-alike computer scientist shouting doom and gloom warnings. Tired and
tiring.

**Deadtime II** (2003) * *

When the monsters from the original **Deadtime** infest the steam tunnels
beneath a mall on the night leading up to the biggest shopping day of the year,
an exhausted mall Santa and an internet savvy teenager must do everything they
can to contain the creatures. This straight-to-video sequel has neither the
clever satire nor the lavish effects budget of the original, but does have a
(somewhat heavy-handed) message about the folly of violence that has aged better
than its special effects.

**Man-Bullet** (2011) * * 1/2

Man-Bullet, the robot with a human soul, fights the occult forces that created
him in this comic book adaptation. So much time is spent setting up the
back-story for Man-Bullet that when we get to the climactic battle we're still
not very interested in the stakes. Why is the prince of the elves trying to turn
the world to ice? Who cares?

**Frankenstein Saves the World** (2015) * * * 1/2

Gloomy poet Calvin Frankenstein discovers his grandfather's notebooks and
reanimates the dead to protect a village from an ancient vampire nobleman.
Unlike the mindless shamblers of zombie horror (or their gothy creator) the
friendly undead are articulate, chipper and eager to help, but their incredible
literal-mindedness and their creator's penchant for posing and romantic nonsense
create all sorts of opportunities for farce before the good guys and the bad
guys finally face off in the finale. An amusing trifle that goes down easy.
